---
title: "longreads 2020"
date: 2020-09-21 14:20 IST
---

[The World According to Peter Thiel - Erik Torenberg's Thoughts](https://eriktorenberg.substack.com/p/the-world-according-to-peter-thiel)

> His claim is that we've had this narrow cone of progress around the world of bits—around software & IT — but not atoms. The iPhones that distract us from our environment also distract us from how strangely old & unchanged our current environment is. If you were to be in any room in 1973, everything would look the same except for our phones. This explains his old Founders Fund tagline: “We wanted flying cars, instead we got 140 characters.”

> Zooming out, people don’t understand how important economic growth is. It’s the only thing sustaining the planet. Without it, we go into a [malthusian war](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Malthusian_catastrophe). **Indeed**: The only way our societies have worked for at least 250 years is by economic growth. Parliamentary democracies are built on an ever-expanding pie that they can continue subdividing. Once the pie is no longer expanding, everything turns zero-sum.

[Cyberdecks For High-Tech Low-Lifes - The Dork Web](https://thedorkweb.substack.com/p/tales-from-the-dork-web-9)

The term “Cyberdeck” was first coined in Gibson’s 1984 literary masterpiece, Neuromancer. He rewrote parts of Neuromancer several times after the release of Ridley Scott’s Blade Runner. Blade Runner was based on Philip K. Dick’s 1968 novel Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep. Scott, Dick, Brunner’s The Shockwave Rider, Goddard’s Alphaville and work by futurists such as Syd Mead and Moebius make the title of “father of Cyberpunk” hard to hang on Gibson alone. But he’s clearly a very important character in the development of Cyberpunk culture.

Just as Shakespeare brought in new words to describe new worlds, 1980s Gibson is Cyberpunk’s Great Bard. The Cyberdeck is just one of Gibson’s literary gifts. It’s the tool that lets Console Cowboys jack into the Matrix of Cyberspace and start hacking.

<!--more-->

[The anthropologist in an economist world - Altered States of Monetary Consciousness](https://brettscott.substack.com/p/the-anthropologist-in-an-economist)

Anthropology starts from the recognition that a person - in the first instance at least - cannot exist apart from a group. Put differently, anthropology assumes that a human network always precedes its individual members, and that care and reproduction precede any form of solo heroics. Human babies don’t survive long if they are left to fend for themselves, and - even if they miraculously survived without others - they would not be able to speak language, which would make all future social interaction, relationships and trade near-impossible.

[The age-old strategy of buying cheap shares is faltering - Hacker News](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=24524721) 

the article is behind paywall, but the discussion at HN is interesting ([premii](https://hn.premii.com/#/comments/24524721))

[Why You Should Use Component-Based Design in Unity](https://spin.atomicobject.com/2020/09/05/unity-component-based-design/)

Let’s say that any weapon will have a component for damage, range, and projectiles (optional). Using Unity’s UI, you could create a weapon by dragging these components onto any GameObject and customizing the values of each one. Then, if the way projectiles are handled changes further into development, all you need to do is change one script, and all your weapons’ functionalities will be updated instead of just those defined at one level of a tree.
